OIDC SSO Release - 7 September 2023 (#6450)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/appstore/modules/oidc-provider.md

    
    {{% alert color="info" %}}The default implementation of `OpenIDConnectProvider.SUB_CustomScope` grants any requested scope provided it is associated with client (your Mendix app). It does not do any validation of the end user.{{% /alert %}}

1. In the connected apps, select the following microflows in the [OIDC SSO](/appstore/modules/oidc/) module to let you app apply the assigned user roles to the end-users:

>     * `UserProvisioning_StandardOIDC` as the user provisioning microflow

Author: Does the standard microflow deal with the OIDC Provider scopes? Or should it be a different one?

Reviewer: Yes Mark , Standard microflow is dealing with the OIDC Provider scopes

Author: Great. Thanks for the update.

1. In the connected apps, select the following microflows in the [OIDC SSO](/appstore/modules/oidc/) module to let you app apply the assigned user roles to the end-users:

    * `UserProvisioning_StandardOIDC` as the user provisioning microflow
    * `OIDC.Default_OIDCProvider_TokenProcessing_CustomATP` as the **custom AccessToken processing microflow** for access token parsing

##### 3.3.3.2 Configuration of the OIDC Provider to Propagate the End-User’s Identity with Custom Claims{#propagate-custom-claims}

Typically you want to propagate the end-user’s identity from the OIDC Provider to your Mendix app. Although the basic user attributes like ‘email address’ and ‘user name’ may be sufficient, your app may need more information about the end-user. User attributes like ‘department’ or ‘job-title’ may be used for business logic, including decentralized authorization.

To pass this additional information, you need to create custom claims. You can do this as follows:

1. Create a microflow which returns a value to the claim.

>     You can also pass an object from the Domain Model as the custom claim in an ID-token. To do this, your microflow should return the object. JSON will be created with the attribute name as the key and the attribute value as the value.

Author: ```suggestion
    You can also pass an object from the Domain Model as the custom claim in an ID-token. To do this, your microflow should return the object.
    
    The ID-token will be a nested JSON structure with the name of the object as the key and a list of attribute names of your object as the keys and the attribute values as the values.

    ```json {linenos=false}
    "MyObjectName": {
        "MyObjectAttribute1Name" : "MyObjectAttribute1Value",
        "MyObjectAttribute2Name" : "MyObjectAttribute2Value"
    }
    ```
```

Does this address the comment below, @JaapF ? 👇

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think so, but I'd like Harshita (or somebody else from the team) to confirm

Reviewer: MyObjectName value will be claimName value

Author: So this would be better?
```suggestion
    You can also pass an object from the Domain Model as the custom claim in an ID-token. To do this, your microflow should return the object.
    
    The ID-token will be a nested JSON structure with the name of the object as the key and a list of attribute names of your object as the keys and the attribute values as the values.

    ```json {linenos=false}
    "MyObjectName": {
        "MyObjectAttribute1Name" : "MyObjectAttribute1Value",
        "MyObjectAttribute2Name" : "MyObjectAttribute2Value"
    }
    ```

    "MyObjectName" will be used as the claim name. See note about how to name custom claims in the [Propagate Custom Claims](#propagate-custom-claims) section, above.
```

Reviewer 2: Harshita agrees, so that means I'm good as well.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think the second sentence could maybe be improved:
"The ID-token will be a nested json structure rather than a flat list; the name of the object as the key on root-level and having the attribute names of your object as keys and attribute values as the values in the nested structure."

"MyObjectName": {
    "MyObjectAttributeName1" : "MyObjectAttributeValue1",
    "MyObjectAttributename2" : "MyObjectAttributevalue2"
     }
     
Right?

```json {linenos=false}
{
    "com.mendix.user.language": "en_US",
    "sub": "3",
    "iss": "http://localhost:8080/",
    "com.mendix.user.entity": "Administration.Account",
    "nonce": "k5CDLkTE7Q61Q0cUTSgy",
    "com.mendix.user.attributes": {

>         "Email": "test@gmail.com",

Reviewer 2: Can we make the example data for the ID-token more 'real-life'? Following the OIDC specifications and sample data (https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html), typical values would be:

Email: janedoe@example.com (2 times: root and nested)
FullName : Jane Doe (nested)
name: Jane Doe (root)
username : JaneDoe (root)

Author: I need someone from the development team to supply a better example - I don't feel qualified to make this change.

Reviewer 2: sample data in access token (consistent with example data for  ID-token):

"name" : "JaneDoe"

Author: Ah, OK. I'll make a proposal.

>         "Email": "test@gmail.com",
>         "FullName": "test token",
>         "IsLocalUser": "true"
>     },
>     "aud": "DemoClient",
>     "scope": "",
>     "name": "test token",
>     "exp": 1681970318,
>     "email":"test@gmail.com",

Author: ```suggestion
        "Email": "janedoe@example.com",
        "FullName": "Jane Doe",
        "IsLocalUser": "true"
    },
    "aud": "DemoClient",
    "scope": "",
    "name": "Jane Doe",
    "exp": 1681970318,
    "email":"janedoe@example.com",
```

    "com.mendix.user.timezone": "",
    "iat": 1681969718,
    "com.mendix.user.roles": [
        "User"
    ]

>     "username":"test"

Author: ```suggestion
    "username":"Jane Doe"
```

This is the case where the OIDC Provider module can be used separately as an IDP without building an IAM structure.

Where there is no IAM brokering functionality, the administrator can create end-users (Accounts) using the AccountDetail page in the OIDC Provider module. This page creates `AccountDetail` objects which automatically create `Account` objects in the app to represent the AccountDetails as accounts.

### 7.4 Structure of ID and Access Tokens

For situations where the Centralized Authorization concept is used (see [Centralized Authorization](#centralized-auth), above), the OIDC Provider module uses the ‘scope’ claim in both the ID and Access token to communicate assigned user roles to connected Mendix apps. The scope parameter one of the following the formats:

* `mx:app:userrole:{user-role-UUID}`, where `{user-role-UUID}` is the UUID of the role in the connected app

> * `{user-role}`, where `{user-role}` is the name of the user role

Reviewer 2: If I'm not mistaken, we decided to also apply the prefix when not using the UUID.
so 'mx:app:userrole:{user-role}' as well.

Team needs to confirm

Author: From conversation with Harshita:

> **Harshita Raj**
> Hi Mark,
> I have reviewed the PR of OIDC Provider
> In the line ### 7.4 Structure of ID and Access Tokens - "either the name or the UUID of the role " should be "UUID of the role"
> We are not adding "mx:app:userrole:" to the name of the role (edited) 
> **Mark van Ments**
> Hi Harshita,
> Can the scope also be just the user role name (without mx:app:userrole:), or is it now always mx:app:userrole:GUID?
> **Harshita Raj**
>  Hi Mark,
> Scope can also be the user role name but
> If the scope is guid then we are adding the prefix to the guid  (edited)

Reviewer 2: Just spoke with Harisha - outcome: no chnage needed in the PR.
I'm eating my words ;-)
